Let's now work on the head.
Let's select the hair and I'll hit that division key again to isolate it.
And for this sense we don't have it connecting up in the inside.
We've deleted these inside bases.
I think it's gonna be a lot easier to just select everything and hit you and unwrap bullets first.
Come over here to the side bar and make sure we've got our scale uniform and we do it's all ones that's
good.
So let's tap back into edit mode at the achy key and then let's select you and unwrap and then we go.
Well that's not too bad.
It laid it out pretty flat.
We can change from Angle base to informal and see if there's a difference.
And there is for this.
So which one should we choose which one would be better.
Well to decide we're really going to have to apply a test pattern to it and see which one is stretched
the least to do that.
Let's come up here and hover right over here and create a new window.
And what I'd like to do is just create a node Ed..
So let's come over here and pull this down and let's switch to a shader Ed here.
I'll hit the in key to close this panel.
And what we need to do is create a material so we can see the nodes of that material.
Now we can create a material here.
In addition there's a material panel over here and we can create the material here.
So either one is fine.
I'll go ahead and click new.
Right over here and you can see the material here visible over here as well.
So to create a test texture let's come down into the image editor here and click new create a new image
and we get this window here where we can give it a new name let's call it UVA test pattern and the width
and height are fine at 10 24.
But the generated type we want to switch from blank to being a UVA grid.
So let's select that.
And then when we click OK we get this we get a a texture pattern here that we can apply to our object.
Now to apply it to our object we're gonna have to create an image node here and connect it up to the
base color.
So let's do that.
Let's press shift a and then create a texture image texture and I'll drag right over here and put it
right there.
We can then pull this menu down and see all of our images that we've used so far in the project.
And here is our UVA test pattern.
There we go.
Now I just need to connect it up from here to here.
Now that we've applied it to our material we need to just change our view here so we can see it.
I'm going to middle mouse button click and hold and drag TO MOVE THIS BAR OVER AND I CAN CHOOSE THIS
RIGHT HERE.
THIS IS THE LOOK div display.
So I click that and now we can see that test pattern here on our object.
All right.
So we need to now UVA map this again to be able to get that little panel down here that we can switch
from Angle based to conform all to see how we're doing.
I'll also hit the A key over here just so we can see it here.
All right.
So I'm going to hit you and unwrap and now we can switch between angle based and can formal.
Well it looks like conform maybe a little bit better.
I think I'll go with conformance here.
All right.
So that's how we can test are you v map to make sure that we have as little stretching in our 2D textures
as possible.
Because if there's stretching on our texture here on our test pattern that we're applying to the material
there will also be stretching on our final textures that we're applying as well.
So we want to take care of any of the stretching here first.
All right well I'll tap back into object mode and then I'll hit that division key and we can select
another object here.
I'll go ahead and select the head and hit the division key and let's see if we can you v map this as
well.
I'll remove the U V test pattern out of this view for now by hitting the X. And we go and I'll tap into
edit mode and for this I kind of feel like at the back of the head would be the best place to put a
seam.
So I'm going to come back here to the back of the head and press Alt and click and put a seam at the
back and then up here.
I don't think we need the seam to go all the way up.
I think we just need it to go along here so I'm going to press Ault and click and I'll shift and click
to get these edges.
Now I guess I do need an edge right here so or a seam right there so many press control e and Marcus
seem so now you can see I've got a seam going all the way along the back and then I've split that top
cylinder up with these two seams as well.
Let's do that now on the bottom so I'll select this edge right here and let's remove this seam I didn't
mean to do that.
So it's press control e and clear seam.
We can do that there.
Then let's press Alt and click here and I'll shift click here and let's add seams down here Mark seen.
OK so now we've got a seam going along the back.
I do that so I can hide the seams as much as possible.
The main things you want to do with you v mapping is avoid stretching or minimize any stretching of
the texture and hide your seems so they aren't as clearly visible.
All right.
So now that we've got this done let's hit a test like everything you can see the U V map lay out here
for that original cylinder we created.
But now let's hit you and unwrap and oh look it says object has non uniform scale and look at what it
did it kind of created it in a strange manner here.
And if we hit angle based and then conform all you can see there's quite a bit of a difference between
the two and that's another sign that we may not have applied our scale.
So let's do that.
Let's tap back into object mode press control a.
Apply the scale tab back into edit mode and let's hit you and unwrap.
Now we can see that the angle based and conform all just flip.
Really.
But that's not too bad.
I think I like can formal a little bit better yeah.
Let's go with that.
All right.
So I'll tap back into object mode.
Hit the division key and let's go back to the solid display and I guess let's go ahead and do the torso
now.
I'll hit the division key and let's press control a to make sure we've got this scale applied.
There we go.
And now tab into edit mode and let's see if we can do here.
I think for this maybe we can select these edges on the top along here like this control e marks seem
and maybe we can select these edges down here.
I'm just holding the shift key to select these control e marks seem.
There we go.
And let's.
Now select this edge right here and then what I'm going to do is come all the way down to here and control
click this edge and if I control click you can see it connects everything up between those two edges.
So I'll then press control e and Mark seam and the same thing over here I'll select this edge go all
the way down.
Press Control click and it connects all of those up and select all of that control e Mark seem OK.
So let's see how we've done.
I'll hit the a key and press you and unwrap and there we go.
So now we have this whole front part here all one piece this piece right here and then all the other
pieces split out as well the back in the top and the bottom.
All right.
So that looks pretty good I'll hit the division key and in the next video what let's do is work on the
pieces of the character that have been mirrored.
Remember that this arm if we go to the modifiers panel still has a mirror modifier on it as well as
the legs and we'll talk about what we're gonna do with these in the next video.